[Music]
seven tricks that can make your car last
longer as impossible as it might sound
not every driver gives much thought to
taking good care of their car but what
if you want your car to serve you longer
and save some money on expensive service
and maintenance you might want to listen
up to these simple yet really important
rules and if you stick around till the
end of the video will tell you how you
can fix a cracked windshield width
you'll never believe it
garlic 7 keep your tire pressure in
check
[Music]
having the correct tire pressure is a
sort of Goldilocks situation if it gets
too low or too high you can have serious
problems when tires don't have enough
air too much heat is generated inside
because the resistance against the road
is stronger if your tires are
under-inflated even by 2 psi your fuel
economy will drop by 2% multiply this by
all the miles you drive every day and
you'll be emptying your wallet just to
pay for gas and get ready to shell out
more money on the tires because the same
tire under inflated by 2 psi will last
4000 miles less and if you're thinking
I'll just over inflate my tires and get
crazy awesome gas mileage well think
again tires with too much air in them
negatively affect the car's drivability
and handling your chances of skidding
hydroplaning or having an accident
increase significantly to avoid these
situations check your tire pressure at
least twice a month but once a week is
even better while adding air to your
tires make sure they aren't warm to the
touch and don't overfill them you also
have to change your tires in a timely
fashion
don't forget about seasonal tire changes
and remember to swap your front and rear
tires at least once a year 6 take it
easy on the gas and brake pedals
sharp acceleration and abrupt braking
might feel like fun
but they're actually extremely harmful
to vehicles they do a number on the
different systems in the car the
transmission and engines suffer a lot
and brake pads and discs wear out much
faster plus you're just burning more gas
than you need to
as for sharp turning it'll cause balding
of the tires and it goes without saying
that you're more likely to get into an
accident if you're trying to act like a
NASCAR driver be careful please v park
correctly too many drivers out there
throw the car into park before coming to
a full and complete stop you have to
avoid this habit because it takes a real
toll on the transmission and leads to an
expensive repair the same goes for
putting the car into drive or reverse
before stopping fully don't do it you
should always stop the car completely
and only then change the gear and here's
another tip when it comes to parking
don't neglect your emergency brake just
because your car has a park year that
doesn't mean that your emergency brake
has no use and I'm not just talking
about for emergency stopping if you
decide to park on an incline and you
should remember that there are almost no
perfectly flat surfaces and put your car
in park it puts too much pressure on the
transmission in rare cases it can even
become dislodged or break down so the
best option is to use the emergency
brake plus when you don't use it for
long periods of time
the cables connected to it can
deteriorate and it might let you down in
an emergency for don't ignore the
dashboard
[Music]
with the help of the symbols on the
car's dashboard your car can tell when
something's wrong like when the engines
overheated something's wrong with the
electrical system or the brake fluid
level is too low go to an auto repair
shop as soon as possible to save
yourself from expensive repairs or even
an accident if you notice the engine
light flashing while you're driving slow
down right away because this might be a
sign of a serious problem the engine
light shows any malfunction in the
entire management system of the engine
if the light doesn't stop flashing even
after you've decreased your speed stop
the car and call a garage where there's
an on-board computer reader the brake
light lets you know that somewhere in
the braking system something has gone
wrong in fact this light can indicate a
lot of things like when the emergency
brake is on or if you're low on brake
fluid if your oil pressure is low you'll
see the oil light shining take it
seriously because if you keep driving
with this light on after some time your
engine will literally die kaput
game over low oil pressure might be due
to a blocked oil filter or a broken oil
pump just do not ignore it whatever the
case may be
3 don't forget about vehicle inspections
and repairs cars are like people they
need regular check-ups and health tests
unfortunately a lot of drivers don't
realize this and neglect routine
maintenance but then they're surprised
when their car quits on them hmm
keeping up with regular checks and
inspections is the best way to prevent
an expensive car repair later on check
your car's manual to find out how often
you should change your oil and air
filter and remember that a lot of it
depends on your driving habits and don't
forget about checks you can do yourself
like oil level tire pressure wiper fluid
and so on
get yearly inspections and keep in mind
that routine maintenance will depend on
the season and the mileage to avoid
overloading
weighing your vehicle down excessively
does nothing good for the car suspension
steering transmission tires and engine +
overloading increases fuel consumption
and makes the car more difficult to
handle to avoid these problems you
should get acquainted with the maximum
load capacity for your car and stick to
it try to get rid of all the useless
stuff in your car let's admit it most of
us have a lot of junk in the trunk and
random crap in the backseat
although incredibly useful on an icy
winter road a bag of salt in the trunk
will only weigh your car down in the
summer carry only the things you really
need at the moment 1 don't overload the
clutch
[Music]
now some advice for those of you who
prefer a stick shift
don't hold the clutch in that long
traffic lights it just wears out the
parts connected to it faster because
they're working too much when they
actually should be resting during short
stops shift to neutral and press the
clutch right before you start moving
bonus fix a cracked windshield with
garlic
although vampires hate it lots of people
like garlic because of its taste and the
aroma it adds to their dishes but did
you know that it also works miracles
when it comes to car maintenance you
just need to take a clove cut it
lengthwise down the middle rub the cut
side over the crack and wipe away the
excess juice with a paper towel or
napkin of course it's no professional
fix but it'll keep the crack from
getting worse until you can get it
repaired do you know any other ways to
help your car last longer let us know in
the comments below and help your friends
extend the life of their cars by sharing
this video with them if you found it
useful yourself and want to see more
like it in the future don't forget to
hit the like button and if you want to
be the first to see our updates
subscribe to our Channel and stay with
us on the bright side of life
you